You guys in this video we're going to take a look at widgets.
OK so right now we have a sidebar but this is just static content in our aged him file or in our I'm
sorry and our PDP file.
So we want this to be to come from the widget guide widget system and we should be able to add multiple
widgets in the sidebar.
Now on the blog page and on any other page this is going to be the only widget.
Aside from a custom home page that we're going to create later on.
All right.
But we are going to add those positions in our functions file.
So let's go ahead and do that.
Open up functions ph.
And we're all go let's see let's go right under the after theme set up action
and this will be to set up widget locations.
So create a function call it in the net underscore the widgets.
And that's going to take an ID and then and here we're going to say register sidebar.
All right.
Now even though this is called register sidebar this is used with all widget positions not just the
side bar.
So it takes in an array
.
And it's going to take a name.
This happens to be the side bar but it could be anything
actually that's going to be an upper case like that.
And then the I.D.
will be all lowercase
characters.
Now we can also have before and after widget
.
We can also have apps
we can also have before and after title of the widget
.
OK.
So this is basically just going to be HTL tags that we want.
What we're going to do is if we look let's say Index ph P and we look at the sidebar it has a div with
the class of Block.
All right.
Now I don't want to actually have to add this div in here so let's put it in here.
OK so div class.
BLOCK And let's also add a class called side widget.
And so after that we're going to want to close that div and for the title I'm going to put h three.
OK so let's save that and then we'll go into index
and we can take out everything that's in this side div
and what we'll do is check to see if there are any widgets in that position.
OK so say if it is active side bar and then pass in the widget ID which is sidebar then we're going
to say H-P dynamic sidebar and we're going to pass in the sidewalk.
OK.
So if we go and look at index it now nothing's there because we haven't added any widgets.
Now we're going to have to replace all of the static side bar code with this.
Let's copy it.
We'll start with archive.
I will just paste that in
and if we go to
Page and of course you don't have to have a sidebar with all these pages but we're going to
search a single
company template
and they think that's it
yeah.
OK.
So now all I do is go to our back end and go to appearance now see how there is no widget.
Now once we added that code to phunk actually you know we need to initialize it.
Yeah we need to go back to functions and then go right under in widgets and we need to say add action
.
Now the hook we want to use is widgets init
and then we just want to put the name of our function which is in net widgets.
So now we'll go back to our backend reload and now under appearance you should be able to go to widgets
.
All right.
And what we're going to do is just add a custom text widget.
And let's just put
say my text widget and then I'm just going to paste a sentence or two in here and save go back to our
front end reload and there we go.
OK so that's coming from the text widget.
Let's add a button in here as well just for works
.
Let's put a line break here.
We'll put two line breaks.
You can put whatever you like in a custom text widget.
Now another thing we could do is add some kind of dynamic widget like let's say the categories.
OK so let's take that categories widget put it here
and I'll save it.
Let's go take a look and there it is.
So I want to do some make this look a little better so we can do that with CSX.
Let's go to the bottom and I'll say Side widget.
When it had a margin bottom 20 pixels that move it down a little bit and then we'll do the list items
will say list style none or give it a line height of one point eight AM and border bottom
will do dotted color will be gray.
Save that.
And there we go.
So that looks a lot better.
Let's actually make it's two point one.
There we go.
So we could also put let's say recent posts
changes to three.
And there we go.
OK.
All the gallery we actually didn't give a title for that you know title.
So let's just say a
photo gallery.
There we go.
So what are you going to do now is I'm going to add the rest of the widgets into functions ph P or the
rest of the widget positions.
Even though we're not going to do it in this video in the next video we're going to create a custom
home page with those widgets so all go right under here.
Paste this send four more times.
OK so sidebar then we're going to have the Showcase area
change the class name.
And then these ones here we're going to have box one box to inbox three.
OK this will have a div of class of walk up lock box and box one.
I I'm actually going to replace these two with that and then we'll change this to box 2 and change this
one to three
I save it.
And now if we were to go back into the widgets area you can now see we have those widget.
Ok at least we have the positions.
If we put something in them now nothing's going to happen because we don't have them in our template
.
But like I said in the next video we're going to create a custom home page where we'll add these widgets